mind your decisions I'm presto Walker
construct a circle with a radius equal
to one from a point on the circle
construct another circle whose radius is
also equal to 1 inscribe a square where
the two circles overlap solve for the
area of the square
I think Nebadon Mukerji for suggesting
this problem and it also appeared on the
2019 senior mathematical challenge
conducted by the UK MT pause the video
if you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we'll get started by focusing on the
square and the region where the two
circles overlap draw a radius from one
Center to the opposite corner of the
square since it's a radius of the circle
its length will be equal to one now
connect the two Centers of the two
circles this will bisect the side of the
square if this length is X then this
length will also be equal to X by
symmetry consequently the entire side of
the square will be equal to 2x now
consider the distance between the two
centers
it's a radius of each circle therefore
its length will be equal to one so half
of the distance will be equal to 0.5 we
can then consider the distance from the
center of one circle to the opposite
side of the square this will be equal to
0.5
plus X we then focus on this right
triangle in a right triangle as everyone
knows a squared plus B squared is equal
to C squared as manju bhargavi a Fields
Medal winner explains the Pythagorean
theorem is clearly the wrong name for
this rule Egyptians had knowledge of it
the Indian stated it and the Chinese
were the first to prove it therefore I
will be referring to it as the Gogu
theorem which is what the Chinese called
this rule using the Gogu theorem we have
point 5 plus X the quantity squared plus
x squared is equal to 1 squared we'll
simplify this formula and we get the
quadratic equation 2x squared plus X
minus 0.75 is equal to 0 will then use
Brahma goop this quadratic formula to
solve for X we substitute in the proper
values and we simplify this formula x
will be equal to negative 1 plus or
minus the square root of 7 all over 4
since X is a length we want X to be
greater than 0 so we'll reject the
negative solution we're almost done we
solve for the valley
X and now we want the area of the square
the side of the square will be equal to
2x and therefore the area will be equal
to the quantity 2x squared we substitute
in the value for X and simplify to get
the answer of 4 minus the square root of
7 all over 2 and this is approximately
equal to 0.67 7 it's a fun geometry
problem and you have to work through a
little bit of algebra as well thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube as always
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]